---
layout: post
title: Pondering the new iPhone lineup
date: 2015-08-13 07:12:52 UTC
category: Feature
tags:
 - iPhone
 - Apple
---

Here is a theory. There have been quite a
lot of rumours about a new "iPhone 6C"
which ought to have the 6's internals in a
brand new 4" plastic body. However, with
no parts leaks this late into summer, the
existence of this model is not a given.
(side note: there are no leaks for the
iPhone 6S plus out either)

We know that Apple has already broken the
pattern of older devices moving down the
price range with the 5C. I think this year
the pattern could be broken again.

After the iPhone 5C was introduced, the
Internet was swamped with articles
describing how much of a flop it was. The
reality is that most people who buy
iPhones in October buy the latest and
*beefiest* one.

So, what if Apple introduced the new,
plastic, iPhone 6C in September but only
made it available in shops in December for
the holidays? This would give them
approximately until October to ramp up the
production, which would explain the lack
of the leaks.

Not only would they protect themselves. But they would also get an excuse for the lower number of phones sold. 

